Headless E-Commerce Monorepo Setup Guide

To ensure our engineering environments are completely identical and to avoid "it works on my machine" integration bugs, follow this step-by-step guide to configure the monorepo, local databases, and mock servers.

1. Install the Prerequisites
You will need a few core platform tools installed on your machine before pulling the code.

- Node.js: Ensure you have a recent version of Node installed.
- pnpm: We are using pnpm instead of npm because it natively supports Turborepo workspaces and drastically reduces node_modules bloat. Install it globally by running: 

npm install -g pnpm

- Docker Desktop: Download and install Docker Desktop from docker.com.
Windows Users: Ensure you have WSL 2 enabled. I highly recommend opening your terminal and running wsl --install -d Ubuntu-26.04 to install a stable Linux subsystem before installing Docker Desktop, as Docker will seamlessly integrate with it.

2. Clone the Repository
Pull the centralized codebase containing the Next.js frontend, Express API, and background workers.

git clone https://github.com/cephas001/clothing-line-project.git
cd clothing-line-project

3. Install Dependencies
Run this command in the root folder. pnpm will crawl through the pnpm-workspace.yaml file and wire up all dependencies globally across the frontend and backend.

pnpm install

Note: If the installation fails with an [ERR_PNPM_IGNORED_BUILDS] error regarding @scarf/scarf or any other package, this is a built-in security feature. Simply run pnpm approve-builds, hit Enter to authorize it, and then run pnpm install again.

4. Spin Up the Infrastructure
We have virtualized the entire database layer using Docker Compose. Run the following command in the root folder:

docker compose up -d

This runs the containers in "detached mode" (in the background). Your machine will pull the exact PostgreSQL 18 and Redis 7 images the project uses, configure the ports, and start them in isolated containers.

5. Accessing the Databases (Important Note)
The Docker terminal logs and desktop application might show URLs like http://localhost:5433/. Do not open these in your web browser. Browsers speak HTTP, while PostgreSQL and Redis use custom binary protocols. Your browser will just show an empty page or drop the connection.

To interact with these containers, view your tables, or check the cache, you must use dedicated database clients.

For PostgreSQL:

Download pgAdmin4, the official, comprehensive PostgreSQL management tool.
Open pgAdmin4 and create a new server connection.

Host: localhost
Port: 5433 (Note: We mapped this to 5433 instead of the default 5432 to prevent conflicts if you already have a native Windows Postgres installation running in the background).
User: admin
Password: password
Database: commerce_db

For Redis:

Download RedisInsight, the official GUI to visualize our BullMQ background queues and JWT denylists.
Open RedisInsight and create a new connection.

Host: localhost
Port: 6379

Leave the password field completely blank.

6. Booting the Development Environment
With the databases running in the background, you can launch the actual application stack from the root folder:

pnpm run dev

This triggers our Turborepo orchestrator. It will execute parallel tasks to boot up:

The Prism Mock Server (localhost:4010): This reads our openapi.yaml contract and instantly generates a lifelike backend that returns structurally perfect, dynamic mock data (using Faker.js).

The Next.js Storefront (localhost:3000): The React frontend is pre-configured via .env.local to point all network traffic to the Prism mock server, meaning you are completely unblocked to build UI components while the live Express backend is being engineered.

7. Shutting Down
Pressing Ctrl+C in your terminal will kill the Next.js and Prism web servers, but the Docker databases will keep running in the background. To gracefully shut down the database containers, run:

pnpm run stop